# LHS_668_Project

The guideline I am encoding is the differential diagnosis of primary mood disorders, from volume 1 of the Clinical Practice Guidelines for Depression in Primary Care. In the guideline a flowchart(figure 3) is provided which maps out the decisions a physician would use in deciding whether or not a patient showing certain depressive systems is suffering from a mental disorder. The diagram begins by asking whether or not the patient is experiencing a sad mood or low interest, then asks whether or not the patient has experienced 5 out of the 9 symptoms of major depressive disorders(see table 1), and finally asks whether or not the patient has experienced  a prior manic episode before providing a diagnosis if the patient has not experienced more than 2 years of persistent symptoms. If the patient has experienced 2 years of persistent symptoms, they will be diagnosed with Dysthymic disorder. Finally, if a patient has neither exhibited 5 out of 9 symptoms in the past, now, or for more than 2 years, a “depression not otherwise specified” is diagnosed such as recurrent, brief, minor, mixed, or anxiety.

The process of diagnosing an individual with depression is often difficult and can look quite different from person to person. I would like to program this actionable knowledge because I think it would be interesting to see how the guidelines for methods of diagnosing mood disorders would look like through the more structured lens of something like a program. 

 Depression in Primary Care. U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, Agency for Health Care Policy and Research ; For sale by the U.S. G.P.O., 1993-.
